That fits perfectly with the "Saving Habits Formation" goal you outlined and tackles the core problem of making financial literacy feel natural and engaging rather than boring.
The judges want to see solutions that align with how real people actually behave. Mirroring mechanics that young Malaysians already open every single day—like TikTok streaks and Zus Coffee tiers—is a brilliant way to achieve this.
Here is how you can technically and conceptually structure these two features to maximize your scores for Innovation (Uniqueness & Originality) and UI/UX Polish under the final round rubric:
1. The TikTok-Style Streak Engine (Gamified Financial Discipline)
Instead of just checking in for no reason, the streak is tied directly to your core engineering mechanics: keeping the Safe Daily Spend in the green or locking away commitments.
How It Works:
* The "Save-Not-Spend" Streak: Every day a user stays under their calculated Safe Daily Spend quota, their streak increases by $+1$.
* Visual Cue: Display a prominent, pulsing fire emoji next to the BeU Pet on the /dashboard (e.g., 🔥 14 Days). If they overspend and break the budget rule, the fire turns to ash, and the BeU Pet switches to its sad or angry animation state.
The Zus Coffee-Style Tier Perks:
You can map out 3 distinct loyalty tiers directly inside your Zustand store (useStore.ts) based on their milestone achievements:


Tier Name
	Requirement
	In-App / Real-World Perk (Simulated)
	Bronze Budgeter
	Base Level
	Standard access to the AI Council specialists.
	Silver Saver
	Maintain a 7-day streak
	Unlocks "Survival Mode Customization" + exclusive BeU Pet skins (e.g., a little business suit).
	Gold Guardian
	Maintain a 30-day streak
	Unlocks an entry into a monthly BeU raffle + 0.5% boost on the simulated Growth Starter pocket compounding rate (boosting from 6.5% to 7.0% p.a.).
	2. Trend-Driven Social Campaigns (Viral Acquisition)
To fulfill the rubric's criteria for Business Model & Viability (Adoption Strategy), you need a realistic plan showing how this app goes viral among university students.
The Campaign: The "De-Influencing" & "Roast My Wallet" Challenge
Right now on social media, "de-influencing" (telling people what not to buy) and transparent budget breakdowns are massive trends. You can leverage your app's built-in Malay Dialect Roast & Toast Engine to drive this campaign.
Tech Integration into your PWA:
1. The "Share My Roast" Button: On the Pay Scanner (/scan) or AI Coach (/coach) screens, when the AI generates a hilariously savage Malaysian slang response warning them not to buy Starbucks (e.g., "Safe Daily Spend tinggal RM15 pun nak high maintenance lagi? Air kosong suam kan ada..."), add a "Share to TikTok/Insta Story" action button.
2. Dynamic Canvas Generation: When clicked, the app generates a clean, trendy mobile-optimized graphic containing the BeU Pet's expression, the savage AI quote, and a QR code pointing to your app's live hosting URL on Nova Cloud.
3. The Incentive: Sharing their financial roast on social media automatically protects their current streak from breaking for 24 hours (a "Streak Shield"), giving them a strong structural reason to share it.
🛠️ How This Changes Your Implementation Blueprint
Since your local Zustand store already handles transactions, dates, and text translations, implementing these features is highly achievable within a hackathon timeline:
* Zustand Addition: You just need to add a few variables to your state: currentStreak: number, highestStreak: number, and a membershipTier: 'Bronze' | 'Silver' | 'Gold'.
* Streak Check Logic: Write a simple utility function inside your billEngine.ts or a new gamificationEngine.ts file that fires during the simulated midnight transition, comparing total actual spend against the Safe Daily Spend quota to increment or reset the streak.
What do you think of this layout? If you like it, should we focus on writing the Zustand state logic for the streak tracker, or map out how the Nova Cloud database will save these user tiers so they don't disappear on a page refresh?
________________
Integrating actual campaigns and products from Bank Islam and the Be U app directly addresses the Business Model & Viability (15%) and Track Alignment (10%) criteria. It shows the judges you aren’t just inventing arbitrary reward structures—you are tying your design directly into the bank's operational reality.
A major strategic event is occurring right now: Bank Islam is officially discontinuing the Be U app on July 31, 2026, transitioning its entire digital ecosystem into the main BIMB Mobile app.
This transition is the ultimate macro-hook for your social media campaign and streak design. We can tie your features into current 2026 promotions across both systems:
1. Integrating Actual Bank Islam Products into the Streak Tiers
By referencing real financial products, your loyalty tiers instantly become believable.
🔸 Tier 1 (Bronze): The Be U Awfar Nest Integration
* The Product: Be U Awfar (the Shariah-compliant high-yield prize-draw account) and its "Nest" savings pockets.
* Streak Execution: When a user keeps their Safe Daily Spend in the green for 3 consecutive days, the app triggers a prompt: "Great job! Let's lock this momentum. Tap here to move your daily extra RM10 directly into your Be U Awfar Nest."
* Real Reward: Tying into Bank Islam’s ongoing RM15 Million Awfar Prize Draw (where users win a Porsche Taycan or BMW i4). The streak engine tells the student: "Every RM10 saved equals another draw ticket to win that EV. Don't break the streak!"
🔸 Tier 2 (Silver): The "Grow Your Glow" Milestone
* The Campaign: Bank Islam’s active "Grow Your Glow" initiative.
* Streak Execution: If students successfully hit a 14-day financial streak and achieve their target milestone in an Awfar Nest category, they unlock regional merchant codes.
* Real Reward: Use Bank Islam's actual merchant partners. For example, graduating to Silver tier grants the user the active RM5 OFF GrabFood / GrabCar coupon or 10% off beverages via the Koppiku App.
🔸 Tier 3 (Gold): Be U TD-i Advance / MaxCash Hybrid Returns
* The Product: Be U TD-i (Term Deposit-i) and the MaxCash 2026 Campaign (which offers a stellar 5.20% profit p.a. wrapper).
* Streak Execution: Aimed at students with internships or large PTPTN allowances. Maintaining a 30-day savings streak unlocks access to simulate the BeU MaxCash hybrid engine. The app automatically calculations how moving RM1,000 of their idle cash into a 6-month fixed deposit unlocks maximum dividend growth.
2. The Campaign Track: The #MisiBIMBTransition Challenge
Because Be U is migrating to the main Bank Islam platform (BIMB Mobile) by August 2026, the migration process can cause confusion among youth. This is an ideal target for a viral campaign.
The Blueprint: The "Graduation From Broke" Campaign
Instead of framing the app closure as a negative, create a trendy social media campaign tracking a student's journey migrating from Be U to BIMB Mobile.
* The TikTok/Instagram Trend: #MisiBIMBTransition (inspired by the recent real-world Be U Savings Streak Challenge #MisiPuasaRaya).
* How the App Drives It: When a student closes their simulated onboarding or fulfills a 7-day streak, the BeU Pet pops up in its wave or excited animation holding a tiny graduation cap. It generates a "Financial Passport" graphic showing their data:
* "I maintained a 15-day streak and saved RM200 on Be U. I am officially moving my funds to BIMB Mobile data-ready. Roast my wallet if you can catch up!"
* The Conversion Hook: For every student who scans the QR code from that shared post and completes the onboarding setup flow, the original user receives a simulated boost to their Be U Awfar Referral Campaign payout (which mimics Bank Islam's real-world RM10 dual referral payout).
🏆 Pitch Checklist for the Judges
When you present this to the Bank Islam executives on panels, frame your expansion like this to align with their current goals:
1. Retention: "We aren't just letting youth delete Be U in July. Our streak engine incentivizes them to map their commitments and migrate them seamlessly to BIMB Mobile before the July 31st deadline."
2. Cross-Selling: "By gamifying milestones, we push young students naturally from basic accounts to high-value ecosystems like Be U Awfar draws and Term Deposits."
How does this alignment feel? Would you like us to look into modifying your state store variables to name these specific campaigns (awfarNestActive, isBimbMigrated) so the code explicitly matches your business pitch?
________________
Here is the formal Functional & Technical Product Requirements Document (PRD) for the Gamified Streak Engine & BIMB Transition Campaign.
This document bridges your technical implementation with the strategic business goals of Bank Islam, mapped out precisely for the hackathon judging criteria (Technical Depth, UX Polish, and Business Viability).
1. Feature Overview: The NextGen Momentum Engine
Component
	Description
	Feature Name
	BeU NextGen Momentum Engine (Streak & Tiers)
	Target Sub-domain
	Track 1 (Sub-domain 2): Money Habits & Saving
	Business Value
	Drive youth retention and user acquisition ahead of the official Be U to BIMB Mobile transition deadline.
	Core Mechanics
	TikTok-style daily spending discipline streaks + Zus Coffee-style product tiers + Viral social sharing modules.
	2. Functional Requirements (What It Must Do)
2.1 The Daily Spending Streak System (/dashboard)
* SR-1.1 (Streak Tracking): The system must monitor daily transaction habits against the user's dynamically calculated Safe Daily Spend quota.
* SR-1.2 (Increment Logic): If a user passes 11:59 PM with total discretionary expenditures less than or equal to their Safe Daily Spend, the global state variable currentStreak increments by $+1$.
* SR-1.3 (Reset Logic): If discretionary expenditures exceed the Safe Daily Spend limit, the streak resets to 0, causing the BeU Pet companion to trigger its sad or angry animation state.
* SR-1.4 (Streak Shield): Users can activate a 24-hour "Streak Shield" once per week by participating in the trend-driven social campaign, protecting a streak from breaking for one billing cycle.
2.2 Product Tier Progression & Bank Islam Perks (/rewards)
The system must automatically calculate user loyalty tiers based on historical data inside the Zustand store:
* SR-2.1 (Bronze Tier - Base Level):
   * Trigger: currentStreak between 0 and 6 days.
   * Perk: Baseline conversational access to all 4 AI Council specialized agents.
* SR-2.2 (Silver Tier - The Awfar Vault):
   * Trigger: currentStreak $\ge 7$ days.
   * Perk: Unlocks Be U Awfar Nest Integration prompts. The app automatically calculates how many prize-draw sweepstakes tickets the user has accumulated toward Bank Islam's ongoing campaign.
* SR-2.3 (Gold Tier - MaxCash Yield Boost):
   * Trigger: currentStreak $\ge 30$ days.
   * Perk: Unlocks simulated access to the BeU TD-i (Term Deposit-i) MaxCash Engine. The user's Growth Starter savings pockets receive a premium compound interest modifier (boosted from 6.5% to 7.0% p.a.).
2.3 Trend-Driven Social Campaign: #MisiBIMBTransition (/scan & /coach)
* SR-3.1 (Roast Export Module): When the Pay Scanner or AI Coach generates a witty warning in local Malaysian dialect, the UI must render an prominent "Share My Roast" action button.
* SR-3.2 (Financial Passport Generation): Clicking the button must programmatically compile a clean, mobile-optimized visual canvas combining the current BeU Pet emotion, the specific AI roast text, user streak counter, and an encrypted download QR code.
* SR-3.3 (Referral Bonus Loop): Scanning the generated QR code directs external users to the PWA hosting link, where initiating the 5-step onboarding flow unlocks a simulated RM10 referral bounty to both accounts, matching Bank Islam's marketing strategy.
3. Technical & Data Requirements (How It Works Under the Hood)
3.1 Extended Zustand Global State Schema (useStore.ts)
To implement these modifications, the central state store must extend its tracking architecture:
TypeScript
interface GamificationState {
  currentStreak: number;
  highestStreak: number;
  lastCalculatedDate: string; // YYYY-MM-DD to avoid multi-login count exploits
  membershipTier: 'Bronze' | 'Silver' | 'Gold';
  streakShieldActive: boolean;
  awfarDrawTickets: number;
  isBimbMigrated: boolean;
}


3.2 Cloud Sync Architecture (Nova Cloud Implementation)
To address your app's identified security and persistence gaps, your Nova Cloud Ubuntu Instance will run a lightweight microservice:
* Database Schema Update: Store user profiles, currentStreak, and verified membershipTier inside a relational database hosted on Nova Cloud.
* Zustand Sync Middleware: Override client-side localStorage data boundaries. On state updates (e.g., executing a simulated QR payload), an asynchronous background request (POST /api/user/sync) commits the updated streak arrays securely to the cloud.
* Secure API Key Orchestration: The frontend Next.js routing engine proxy (POST /api/chat) must rely on server-side environment variables (process.env.GEMINI_API_KEY) configured in the Nova Cloud production environment, protecting credentials from public inspection.
4. UI/UX & Visual Requirements (Framer Motion & Tailwind)
* UR-4.1 (Streak Display): A prominent, pulsing fire emoji module (🔥 X Days) must sit next to the active cashflow indicator on the main /dashboard route.
* UR-4.2 (Tier Change Overlay): Upgrading or downgrading tiers must halt standard views to execute a fullscreen, celebratory Framer Motion card reveal displaying the unlocked Bank Islam product capability.
* UR-4.3 (BeU Pet Interactivity): The pet module must intercept state changes instantly: cheering (excited state) upon streak increments, and looking deep in thought (think state) when calculating compound interest yields.
🎨 Pitch Strategy Tip for Wafi, Akmal, Paan, and Ibad
When editing your Pitch Deck (PDF) for the Preliminary Evaluation, highlight these requirements directly under your Innovation & Business Impact sections.
Frame it exactly like this to the judges:
"We aren't just letting students abandon the platform due to the July closure. BeU NextGen turns the migration friction into a gamified milestone loop, moving user data safely into the Bank Islam system through interactive social triggers."






Component
	Summary / Key Features
	Core Strategy
	Gamifying financial discipline to make literacy engaging for young Malaysians, aligning with real-world behaviors and Bank Islam's operational transition.
	TikTok-Style Streak Engine
	Daily financial discipline tracker tied to "Safe Daily Spend" quotas with visual cues like a pulsing fire emoji and BeU Pet animations.
	Zus Coffee-Style Tier Perks
	Three loyalty tiers (Bronze, Silver, Gold) offering increasing rewards such as app customization, exclusive pet skins, and boosted profit rates.
	Trend-Driven Social Campaigns
	Viral adoption strategy using "De-Influencing" and "Roast My Wallet" challenges with built-in social sharing buttons and streak shields as incentives.
	Bank Islam Product Integration
	Direct mapping of tiers to real products like Be U Awfar Nests, merchant coupons (Grab/Koppiku), and MaxCash hybrid return engines.
	#MisiBIMBTransition Campaign
	A "Graduation From Broke" social trend focusing on migrating users from Be U to the main BIMB Mobile app before the 2026 deadline.
	Pitch Checklist for Judges
	Strategic framing for executives focusing on user retention during the app transition and cross-selling high-value financial ecosystems.